# Working with Files

Learning to deal with files is key to processing textual data. Often, text that you have to process is contained in a text file such as a logfile, config file, or application data file. Python contains an easy-to-use built-in type called file that can help you do all of those things.

***Creating Files***
In order to create a file object, you use the built-in function open(). Here is an example of code that opens a file for reading:
```
In [1]: infile = open("foo.txt", "r")
In [2]: print infile.read()
```

> Because open is built-in, you don’t need to import a module.

Open() takes three parameters: a filename, the mode in which the file should be opened, and a buffer size. Only the first parameter, filename, is mandatory. The most common values for mode, are “r” (read mode; this is the default), “w” (write mode), and “a” (append mode). A complementary mode that can be added to the other modes is “b,” or binary mode. The third parameter, buffer size, directs the operating the way to buffer the file.

In the previous example, we specified that we would like to open() the "file foo.txt" in read mode and be able to refer to that new readable file object with the variable infile. Once we have infile, we are free to call the read() method on it, which reads the entire contents of the file. Creating a file for writing is very similar to the way we created the file for reading.

Instead of using an "r" flag, you use a "w" flag:
```
In [1]: outputfile = open("foo_out.txt", "w")
In [2]: outputfile.write("This is\nSome\nRandom\nOutput Text\n")
In [3]: outputfile.close()
```


